There are close to 1,000 children on India’s CARINGs site.  Most have moderate to severe special needs.  Families with Indian heritage may wait for a direct referral from CARA of a healthier child.  Families without Indian heritage must be open to a child with special needs.

Waiting Children are between 6 months and 16 years of age. The India program includes three categories, relative to your heritage:

·         NRI:  One spouse is an Indian citizen and the other is a US Citizen.  This will be a Hague adoption process and your child will become a US citizen.  NRI families are eligible to adopt a young child with no known health problems.

·         OCI – US Citizens, of which one or both parents have Overseas Citizen of India status.  You are eligible to adopt a young child with no known health problems.  Most OCI families are also open to a child with minor and/or correctible special needs.  OCI are treated on par with NRI families.

·         Foreign – Families with no Indian heritage or Indian families that do not qualify as NRI or OCI.  The reality of the program requires us to counsel foreign families to be open to considering a child with moderate to severe special needs, or a child over age 10. Applications from families hoping to adopt only healthy young children (unless they are NRI/OCI) will result in many years of waiting and possibly not rece

iving a referral at all


Single women:
The maximum age for children 0-2 is 40 years.
The maximum age for children 0-4 is 45 years.
The maximum age for children 4-8 is 50 years.
The maximum age for children 8+ is 55 years.

The age of prospective adoptive parents as on the date of complete registration shall be counted for deciding the age group of the child you apply for. The eligibility of prospective adoptive parents to apply for children of different age groups shall be as under – All age requirements will be emailed to you upon request.
Waiting Children are between 6 months and 16 years of age. There are four categories: no known health issues, physically challenged, mentally challenged, and multiple disabilities.
Couples must be married for a minimum of two years.
Single women are eligible to adopt a child of any gender. Single men shall not be eligible to adopt a girl child.
The prospective adoptive parents (PAPS) should be financially stable to support a child comfortably.
Couples with two children shall only be considered for special needs children. The minimum age difference between the child and either of the PAPS should not be less than twenty-five years.